## 2024-12-16

### Who is here

Frank Löffler, Jean-Noël, Gerasimos, Magnus Hagdorn, Jeremy Cohen, Dominik Leipold, Philipp Thiele, Florian Goth, Simon Christ

### Roles

- Moderator: Frank / Florian
- Notes taker: Gerasimos
- Time keeper: Frank / Florian

### Agenda

- New member: Dominik Leipold, Musicology LMU Munich
- Dagstuhl seminar series
    - Paper submitted (see [related issue](https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/issues/383))
- Discussed so far: [3 pillars](https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+pillar)
    - [4th pillar](https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education/issues/18) (Embedding RSE into existing frameworks)?
- How do we need to make them separate from existing HPC initiatives?
  - HPC is not critical for DH
  - Munich has a programm for DH
  - "git has influenced my way of academic thinking for my life"
- next steps?
    - January: We start writing stuff.
    - We start drafting in the issues:
        - Pillar 1: Florian
        - Pillar 2: Simon + Magnus
        - Pillar 3: Frank
        - Pillar 4: Gerasimos
    - Everybody comes up with one question from their pillar, we use that as starting point for structuring the workshop.
- deRSE25 workshop: 60mins with the option of extending by around ~10mins
    - We need to prepare some structure.
- RSE Master
    - Job application now online (until January 5th)
    - If interested feel free to contact Anna-Lena earlier
    - https://gesellschaft-fuer-informatik.jobs.personio.de/job/1874877?language=de&display=de

## 2024-12-09

### Who is here

Florian, Gerasimos, Simon, Jean-Noël, Philipp, Magnus

### Roles

- Moderator: Flo
- Notes taker: 
- Time keeper: Flo

### Agenda
- Dagstuhl seminar series deadline? 15.12 Philipp has to hand in 
- template at overleaf: https://www.overleaf.com/2737254243zdfjtwhnvpyx#29b77f
- feedback from VW thingy:
  - Invitation to all Stakeholders
  - 4 groups 1: Education and Training, Community building, Recognition and Incentivation, Ethics and Integration
  - Simon visited Education and Training: https://pad.gwdg.de/s/ZXmW8iXm2
  - Our Paper is already used by people!!
 

#### Brainstorming part 3
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education/issues/17
There are a couple of things we can think of:
multiple institutions:

- Assuming we have institutions, which kinds of network can they form?
- Assuming these networks exist, what other stakeholders will profit
- Accreditation structures?

single institution:

- What policy/incentives needs to be implemented at a university(Leibniz, MPG, ...) ?
  - Pooling Resources in interest-driven networks
  - Networks enable interaction with industry and provide opportunities for students.

- What policies/Incentive need to be present at a national level, such that these institutions will be created?

- How do domains profit from having a connection to such an institution?
- A teaching facility can jumpstart the transition to dgitalization. Imagine a humanities department who has no-one to start digitalization
- What are the benefits of these institutions for an individual?

- What are the benefits for a university?
  - proper students
    - Local RSEs could improve digital literacy in the domains
    - If there is a master, contribute to the master, e.g. as supervisors
  - Help Academics:
    - Graduate Programs
    - Maintainathons
    - Consultation programs

    - Benefits: less costs,  Reduce the average time of a PhD, Get more stuff done in the same time
    - Promotes Interdisciplinarity
    - Enables univeristies to distinguish themselves


- Are there policy changes in the funding structure necessary, such that Graduates can access their resources?

Other important aspects:
- institutions should aim for a mixture of profs and practitioners
- maybe teacher is a good carreer aim for senior practitioners.

totally unrelated: graphical abstract for the competencies: a DNA strand with all the competencies lined up


## 2024-12-02

### Who is here

### Roles

- Moderator:
- Notes taker:
- Time keeper:

### Agenda
- check BSSW blog post for intent wrt. to the publications: https://bssw.io/blog_posts/identifying-the-foundational-competencies-of-a-research-software-engineer
- FIXMEs are fixed and now merged: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/384
- Fun facts from F1000:   	

Dear Florian,

We’re pleased to let you know that your F1000Research article: Foundational Competencies and Responsibilities of a Research Software Engineer has now been viewed 228 times. In addition, the PDF version of your article has been downloaded 22 times.

- Feedback on HiRSE Seminar

- Brainstorming for institutions:
  - https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education/issues/16
  - Some structured questions:
    - What will a young person from school find attractive on this career path?
      - It should be very mix&match.
    - What will they see, if they consider this a viable choice for pursuing after their bachelor?
      - 
    - What values do the teachers need to project, that delineate it from the domain profs?
    - longtime support structures
    - Postgraduate certificate for those that have graduated from a master: becomes useful by having some external synchronization. (Not a full masters program.)
    - 

## 2024-11-25

### Who is here
Flo, Philip, Jean-Noël, Frank, Gerasimos, Magnus

### Roles

- Moderator:
- Notes taker:
- Time keeper:

### Agenda
- News update: Nothing... Update: published at BSSW.
- Motivation: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education/issues/15

We reminded ourselves that we have the RSE group position paper.
Also we might want to inspire ourselves there for motivation
We discussed some questions:
- Why do universities want that
  - other's are doing it, FOMO
  - Lack of available local RSE support , remember the hub-and-spoke-system


- Other stakeholders that require RSEs
  - RSE-groups, librarys, TierX-computing-centers(NHR, or educaion in NHR), government organisations that perform their own research (destatis, PTB, RKI)

- Why can't we produce the required graduates in the RSE system
  - We need to have proper degrees, in order to better filter at job interviews
  - requires to break the "rigid" Bachelor, Master structures
  - We don't know which department would host an interdisciplinary RSE Master's course
  - maybe have something that spans multiple institutions, like a campus-wide network.

- Policy changes
  - emphasize interdisciplinarity in education
  - pressurize towards interdisciplinarity through funding measures

- What about HPC? This time we should have in the intro. Big delineation sections on HPC and SE.


## 2024-18-11

### Who is here

Flo, Magnus, Jean-Noel, Gerasimos, Michele, Philip

### Roles

- Moderator: Flo
- Notes taker: GC
- Time keeper: Flo

### Agenda
- Proofs of competencies
   - missing ORCiD: Matthias Braun; Renato Alves, Gerasimos Chourdakis; Jeremy Cohen; Fredo Erxleben; Toby Hodges; Dominic Kempf; Anna-Lena Lamprecht; Frank Löffler; Michele Martone; Heidi Seibold; Jan Philipp Thiele; Samantha Wittke
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education/issues/15
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education/issues/16
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education/issues/17
- GC: Maybe another pillar? https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education/issues/18
- GC: learn-and-teach citation (`CITATION.CFF`, Zenodo)
    - codefair bot (ask JPT): https://github.com/fairdataihub/codefair-app
    - related issue: https://github.com/DE-RSE/learn-and-teach/issues/30
    - authors vs contributors
    - GC will do further research and report
- Next time we continue the discussion on the motivation issue.

## 2024-11-11

### Who is here
Flo, Jean-Noel, Leyla, Michele, Philipp

### Roles

- Moderator:
- Notes taker:
- Time keeper:

### Agenda
- Brainstorming: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education/issues/14
- Jeremy does things: https://www.software.ac.uk/news/registration-now-open-research-software-camp-digital-skills-research-technical-staff?mc_cid=e67bedafc3&mc_eid=97905f4aee

#### Outreach:
BSSW:
Yes, I think we would be interested in reposting your blog article.  I think we can get it out at the end of November.
 
I notice that you attribute the article to the “TeachingRSE Collaboration”.  We prefer to have individuals identified.  Please let me know who it would be appropriate to list, and in what order.  We can use the author list off the paper, if you like, or something smaller.
 
Related to that, we also like to link author names with GitHub profiles, where possible,  And we like to have short bios for the authors (~50-100 words).  If you want to go with a long list of authors, I understand that might be a lot to collect, so we could consider an alternative, for example a brief description of the “TeachingRSE Collaboration” members in a collective sense.  Let me know what you think is reasonable.
 
Thanks for reaching out to us!
- Decision: Jeremy, Frank, TeachingRSE project

- BoF session: AI and other risks for RSE -> On pad. Will be handed in by Flo(so he thinks)

## 2024-11-04

### Who is here

Flo, Gerasimos, Jean-Noël, Leila, Frank, Michele, Magnus

### Roles

- Moderator: Flo
- Notes taker:
- Time keeper:

### Agenda
Flo's curiosity:
What's the proper english interpretation of this:
These two sentences consider as funding or acknowledgement,
DK acknowledges support from the Scientific Software Center which is funded as part of the Excellence Strategy of the German Federal and State Governments.
MM acknowledges funding from the SiVeGCS Project.


- deRSE25 BoF session ->I've submitted a session. Please tell me if you want to participate
- deRSE25 WS session ->I've submitted a session. Please tell me if you want to participate
- Zenodo community: https://zenodo.org/communities/teachingrse/records?q=&l=list&p=1&s=10&sort=newest

#### summarised
- Magnus did some work, that will bring us under 6250 words:
https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/379

#### Kick-Off of Brainstorming November!!
- We need to collect ideas for
https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education/issues/1
https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/call_to_action/issues/1

#### offtopic
- deRSE25: In case you didn't know, there's the topic bazaar: https://pad.gwdg.de/BJ74y29CS7OwuBMT6uTz7w#




## 2024-10-28

### Who is here

Flo, Frank, Gerasimos, Michele, Jean-Noël, Magnus

### Roles

- Moderator: Flo
- Notes taker: Flo
- Time keeper: Flo

### Agenda
#### outreach
- deRSE25 BoF session ->I've submitted a session. Please tell me if you want to participate -> https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/general/issues/8
- deRSE25 WS session ->I've submitted a session. Please tell me if you want to participate -> continue on github
   - Jean-Noël Grad can participate
- Ian Cosden hat folgende Einreichung bei der SC24 und hätte gerne einen lightning talk über die competencies. Vielleicht fährt ja jemand von uns hin (ich nicht)
https://sc24.conference-program.com/presentation/?id=bof154&sess=sess659


#### summarised
- biography: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/377
- specializations: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/375

#### offtopic

- deRSE25: In case you didn't know, there's the topic bazaar: https://pad.gwdg.de/BJ74y29CS7OwuBMT6uTz7w#

#### lessons-learned
- reduce length. Remember PLOS CompBio had 2500 words.
- stick to latex as long as possible

#### Plan for institutions-paper
- Have a brainstorming november
- get a skeleton written up in December + January
- Having sth. to discuss in February at de-RSE25.

## 2024-10-21

### Who is here
Flo, Frank, Jeremy, Magnus, Philipp

### Roles

- Moderator: Flo
- Notes taker:
- Time keeper: Flo

### Agenda

1. teachingRSE deRSE25 workshop? EVERSE?
2. US-RSE: See note below
3. FG-RSE : https://fg-rse.gi.de/fachgruppe/arbeitskreise#c91002 -> We want to have that! -> teachingRSE in name
4. description + name for that: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/general/issues/7
5. F1000: Progressing. second round of prepint fixes. We have more reviewers

#### executive summary
6. https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/375
7. 

#### Notes from USRSE24 Workshop:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jEezBKBNqcW7wOIQRfAE9KxE5ZKxcLzmpZKbkZ1Am5k/edit#heading=h.onzm0m3s0san

## 2024-10-14

### Who is here

Florian, Michele, Gerasimos, Magnus, Leyla

### Roles

- Moderator: Flo
- Notes taker: Gerasimos
- Time keeper:
- Time taken: 35min

### Agenda

- Condensed version for Dagstuhl:
    - https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/issues/368
    - Gerasimos is working on the introduction: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/372
    - Michele will work on the Specializations (goal: one paragraph in total) and open a PR for Philipp and Frank to review, since they also wanted to work on this
- F1000: LaTeX and doc issue
    - Conclusion: Let's submit the auto-generated Adobe doc that JNG prepared and see what happens
- de-RSE25 call for abstracts is approaching fast (end of October): https://events.hifis.net/event/1741/
- de-RSE24 videos and proceedings coming soon-ish
    - Videos: de-RSE will get its own YouTube channel
    - Proceedings: "this year", waiting for 80% of the papers to be accepted to publish the volume


## 2024-10-07

### Who is here

- Stephan Druskat (DLR)
- Florian Goth
- Simon Christ

### Roles

- Moderator: Flo
- Notes taker:
- Time keeper:

### Agenda
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/365
    - Publication. authorship auf teachingRSE project
- ROR für deRSE->teachingRSE
                    - Reduced author list, teachingRSE entity
                        - condensed version only for the Dagstul seminar series. No other short publications.
                        - Overleaf des templates mit Edit-Rechten: https://www.overleaf.com/2737254243zdfjtwhnvpyx#29b77f
- Go with F1000
- For CiSE condensed version: 
    - Author guidelines: https://www.computer.org/csdl/magazine/cs/write-for-us/14597?title=Author%20
    - Overleaf: https://www.overleaf.com/2737254243zdfjtwhnvpyx#29b77f

## 2024-09-30

### Who is here
Flo, Jean-Noël, Jael, Jeremy, Philipp, Simon

### Roles

- Moderator: Flo
- Notes taker: all
- Time keeper: Flo

### Agenda

- New Meeting Slot starting 7.10.24 : Monday 3-4pm
- DECISION: an upcoming de-RSE Blog post is THE original blog post. Remember to back-link to that Blog-Post if you reuse the blog post somewhere.
- publication venue
   - PLOS Comp Biol desk reject due to length
   - other venues:
      - F1000 Res, which would allow us to cite it in the Dagstuhl Seminar proceedings -> TODO: FLO has to submit it over there.
      - [Open Research Europe](https://open-research-europe.ec.europa.eu/): fees waived, but might be less visible than F1000 Res
      - IEEE: maybe too specific to CS/engineering fields
- We kind of decided that we go with F1000 and write a condensed version for Dagstuhl seminar series book, and maybe PLOS CompBio.

## 2024-09-23

### Who is here
Flo, Frank, Philipp

### Roles

- Moderator: Flo
- Notes taker: Flo
- Time keeper: Flo

### Agenda

1.) Here's the poll for the future Meeting slot:
https://terminplaner6.dfn.de/de/p/0f2c74e5e3b429c6cfcaae5657b60312-887352?authkey=ede661223702de88917693cc22bf724dbc9f0f770fded0e9abd157fa94e2c4bf
We can discuss how long to open it.
Friday 15:00 -> Reminder Wednesday: 12:00

-> Next Meeting 30.09: 10am

2.) We have a draft for a blog post:
https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/362
- Adapt persona to "they", the authors...

3.) @Frank : Position Paper? -> Accepted! Yay!

4.) And we wanted to discuss, whether this old plan:
https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education/issues/1
Still fits our idea and is relevant, after all the things we have written in the competencies paper,
the SE-Leitlinien, the upcoming Masters program...


## 2024-09-16

### Who is here

 - Florian
 - Simon
 - Frank
 - Jean-Noël
 - Gerasimos
 - Magnus

### Roles

- Moderator: Florian
- Notes taker: Gerasimos
- Time keeper:

### Agenda

- FG: Publication - Reply from the Uni Wü library:

> F1000 Research hat verschiedene Artikelkategorien mit 910/1.150/1.595 USD Publikationsgebühr
https://f1000research.com/for-authors/article-processing-charges
> 
> Berechnung des Autoren-Eigenanteils für 2024:
600 EUR Mindestanteil + (1/3 der Gesamtkosten (inkl. Mwst.) – 600 EUR), gekappt auf 1.500 EUR
> 
> Voraussichtliche Kosten für Sie wären demnach je nach Artikelkategorie und Umrechnungskurs ca. 730/815/975 €.

- FG: PLOS publishing fees: https://plos.org/publish/fees/
- FG: [Comparing F1000 and PLOS in metrics](https://www.scimagojr.com/comparejournals.php?ids[]=21100258853&ids[]=4000151810)
- SC: [TIB publishing funds](https://www.tib.eu/en/publishing-archiving/financing-open-access/publishing-fund-leibniz-universitaet)
    - SC: [Recently published in PLOS](https://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1011918)
- Conclusion: FG writes to PLOS editor
- FG: Any updates on the [blog post](https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/issues/361)? - No.
- FG: Next step: start [preparing the Institutions paper](https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education/issues/1)
- JNG: Let's first merge open PRs before continuing with the Institutions (**TODO**)
    - GC will copy [278](https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/278) into the new repository. (**TODO**)
- FG: Announce to de-RSE ML new project. Also poll for new time slot. (**TODO**)


Next steps:
- Write a blog post draft
- Once the Competencies paper is accepted as a Position Paper, publish the blog post
- Send an email that this is now published
    - Citability concerns
    - Mention in the email that we are starting a new paper
    - Ask for a new time

Timeline for submitting to a journal: Write to editors (PLOS, next F1000), figure out what the university covers, check again next week.

## 2024-09-09

### Who is here

- Florian, Gerasimos, Magnus, Jeremy, Jean-Noël, Frank, Philipp

### Agenda

- FG: Current state of the paper
    - Nothing changed in the repository content in the past month
    - Some issues moved to a general repository
- Overview of previous meetings + RSECon24
    - Conditions for position paper meeting at deRSE not met, postponing
    - Philipp reports from RSECon and another related workshop
    - There will be funding for a full-time position to design a curriculum
- Where to publish
    - See https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/issues/219
    - We need any reasonable publisher, we can do the advertising (PLOS CompBio?? Flo looks into that)
    - https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/tocresult.jsp?isnumber=9121588&punumber=5992
    - https://www.computer.org/csdl/magazine/cs
    - https://dl.acm.org/journal/toce
    - https://www.software.ac.uk/top-tip/which-journals-should-i-publish-my-software
- Where to advertise
    - We will draft a reusable blog-post!(JC + MH)
    - We are in the ReSA guidelines: https://www.researchsoft.org/guidelines/
- FL: move meeting time (maybe 30min - 1h earlier?)
    - There will be a poll in October
- GC: Meetings/operations meta
    - We can use the pulse feature to get an overview: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pulse
    - Ideally, everyone should get an overview asynchronously before the meeting
    - 90min every week is too long, let's restrict it to 60min
    - We can use break-out rooms and other tools (e.g., miro) for brainstorming
    - In pull requests, let's resolve the conversations, and only bring up topics that need discussion
    - Let's use a label to mark issues/PRs that need to be raised into the next meeting
    - Let's rotate moderator/time keeper/note keeper in every meeting
    - Let's more actively use this meeting pad for planning
- FG: How to move forward
    - Florian checks potential journals with the library
    - Everyone else searches for journals

## 2024-09-02

### Who is here
- Jeremy Cohen, Jean-Noël, Jael Castro, Frank Löffler

### Agenda

- GC: Citing the learn-and-teach project: https://github.com/DE-RSE/learn-and-teach/issues/30
- general observations on optimizing our workflow:
   - a lot if tickets in the competencies repo are not specific to competencies, these can be moved to a "project management repository" ([the-teachingRSE-project/general](https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/general/issues))
   - the competencies paper is really thorough, which can be an issue for journals which impose restrictions on the number of pages or citations
   - consider starting work on the next paper (institutionalized education) to capitalize on our momentum and avoid lengthening the competencies paper further ([#278](https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/278), [#5](https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education/pull/5))
   - the last meetings allowed us to allocate a lot of time on small yet important changes to satisfy every stakeholder in the RSE community; this is probably the ideal way for writing a successful paper, however starting the meeting with 30 min on the next paper and 30 min on the competencies paper would probably help us maximize our total output without significantly affecting the outcome of the competencies paper

## 2024-08-19

### Who is here
- Frank
- Jean-Noël

### Agenda

1. competencies
    1. Due to missing quorum: competencies paper could not (yet) be made "de-RSE position paper". However, FL thinks this is just a matter of time: no issues seen or mentioned during review phase to prevent this, and lots of people already contributed, so "the community" did have quite some "say" in it as well
    2. (skipped) next steps in publication: place selection
        - can we really say something today, with Florian missing and "relevant person for 'deal-2' @Würzburg" on vacation until end of August? Maybe at least shortlist?

## 2024-08-12

### Who is here
- Flo, Frank, Gerasimos, Magnus, Philipp, Jean-Noel

### Agenda
- Deal-2 at Uni würzburg(relevant person is on holiday till end of August):
  - Taylor & Francis

    2024-2026: Transformationsvertrag für hybride Zeitschriften
        Alle hybriden Taylor & Francis-Zeitschriften (Zeitschriftenliste)
        Artikeltypen: Research Article (core content article types, original peer reviewed research): Article, Research Article, Review, Review Article, Report, Brief Report, Note, Case Report, Essay, Discussion
        Die intern angerechneten Gesamtkosten betragen 2.873,85 EUR
        Ihnen wird ein Autoren-Eigenanteil von 1.357,95 EUR in Rechnung gestellt (auch wenn Sie die Open Access Option nicht nutzen!)
    2024-2026: Reine Open-Access-Zeitschriften
        15 % Rabatt

- Where do we put the remaining 3 deRSE24 Items?

## 2024-08-05

### Who is here
- Flo, Philipp, Frank, Gerasimos

- publication place:
  - TBD next larger meeting
  - Flo checks Deal-2 at UBW
  - Flo sync's arxiv + de-RSE namespace version on 09.08
- intended paper order (can be subject to change):
  1. competencies
  2. institutionalized
  3. curriculum
  4. call to action

### Agenda
- Meeting Poll: 19th: hosted by Frank, no meeting on 26th, 02.09th hosted by Jeremy or Magnus
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/331
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/319
- iterate on acknowledgements
- move deRSE24 labeled issues.
- backup meeting am Freitag


## 2024-07-29
### Who is here
- Flo, Philipp, Michele, 

### Agenda
- 26th of August no meeting
- 19th of August a couple of days after de-RSE board meeting
- 02.09? do we want to have a meeting?
- 

## 2024-07-25
Additional meeting
### Who is here
- Flo, Philipp, Frank, Magnus

### Agenda
- 291
- Kay: amend story with technicians commitment(https://www.techniciancommitment.org.uk/).
- 09.08 Deadline
- Stale branches reminder


## 2024-07-22
due to deRSE25 meeting shifted slightly for today to 10:30
### Who is here
- Flo, Philipp, Nicholas, Jean-Noël, Magnus, Frank, Jael, Michele

### Agenda
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/296
- Matrix Room
- Philip creates a follow-up to 297 disambiguating researchers.
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/306  homework
- Flo references #307
- EXCEPTIONEL MEETING at 25.07@10am
- We will do an arxiv release before september

## 2024-07-15

### Who is here
- Florian, Frank, Gerasimos, Magnus, Harald, Jeremy

### Agenda
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/290
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/291
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/292

MARDI: https://mathalgodb.mardi4nfdi.de/overview/mathalgodb:software/0.1%2Fall

xSDK: https://xsdk.info/

https://dl.acm.org/action/doSearch?SeriesKey=toms&sortBy=cited

- Is swebok sufficient? Make sure it is in the discussion.
- check de-RSE repo and synchronize it.

## 2024-07-08

### Who is here
- Flo, Philipp, Nicholas, Jean-Noël, Magnus

### Agenda
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/290
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/RSE-Masters/blob/main/curriculum.md
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/institutionalized_education/pull/5
    - https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/issues/286


## 2024-07-01

### Who is here
- Flo, Magnus, Philipp, Jeremy, Harald, Jean-Noël, Gerasimos

### Agenda
- intro for the technical pillar: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/290
- What is a well-enginnered product: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/issues/289

And somehow tangentially:
Bernhard is looking for section 5.4 of his Leitlinien
for ideas to better advertise RSEs in a university:
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cSTJcX5NMxuYFwONtPLBiLhU5ogdbh-LEZgR3-vwiEI


#### Dissemination opportunities

[Netherlands Open Science Festival 2024](https://www.openscience.nl/en/meetings/save-the-date-national-open-science-festival), 22nd October 2024, Maastricht (_[call for sessions](https://opensciencefestival.nl/en/call-for-sessions) open until 11th July_)


## 2024-06-25

### Who is here
- Flo, Harald von Waldow, Jean-Noël Grad, Jeremy Cohen, Michele Martone

### Agenda
- bibliography PR? Flo has merge issues
   - sorted out in [#282](https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/282)
- Sort out title discussion
- reiterated that we want to keep the title.
- https://gi-radar.de/351-research-software/
- RSE: Schnittstellenwissenschaft <-> Interface Discipline
- Own research found that wikipedia definition is heavily modified by community members... over the past months.
- Harald volunteered to start over here: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/issues/287


## 2024-06-18

### Who is here
- Flo, Frank, Magnus, Leyla, Michele, Philipp, Gerasimos

### Agenda
- how to proceed with regard to the title change.
- a section of where to put the braces in (R[S)E]
- introductory section on (RS)E vs. R(SE)
- Engineering practices for research software
- Venn Diagram, maybe also for the end.
- Gerasimos: expansion of technical pillar intro
- thinking about strengthening the engineering aspect. Maybe also modify the pillars.

Now we have issues: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/issues/286

## 2024-06-10

### Who is here
- Flo(ill), Jean-Noël, Frank, Harald, Magnus, Leyla

### Agenda
- preparation for the extra meeting: https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/issues/265
- https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/283

Plan for Wednesday
- keep Title
- Keep 1/3-1/3-1/3
- maybe extend the parts
- how about a contribution from SE?

## 2024-06-03

### Who is here
Florian Goth, Harald, Philipp, Leyla, Moritz, Jan, Simon, Jeremy, Magnus, Michele
Not here: Gerasimos Chourdakis

### Agenda

- repositories moved -> Done
- bibliography
- redo-266 -> Merged. Now has a follow-up MR
- cff file? -> postponed
  - generate header for paper
  - get nice CFF files for each project
  - We will keep it as it is for now.

- title change:
- we will have a separate meeting for that. Invite everybody. Flo writes invitation

Leitlinien Software Entwicklung für Universitäten: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cSTJcX5NMxuYFwONtPLBiLhU5ogdbh-LEZgR3-vwiEI/edit#heading=h.671qdzfhp8ke


## 2024-05-27

### Who is here
Florian Goth, Gerasimos Chourdakis, Jan-Philipp Thiele, Jean-Noël Grad, Harald von Waldow, Moritz Schwarzmeier, Magnus Hagdorn, Michele Martone

### Agenda

- Moving of repositories 

  https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/279
https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/277

- maybe we want to discuss, whether we move the bibliography in its own project.
   - decide on git submodule vs. Zotero
   - git submodule: all RSE papers use the same bibliographic data (always up-to-date)
   - Zotero: make bibliography more discoverable (annotations, PDF files)
   - see [the-teachingRSE-project/competencies#245 (comment)](https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project/competencies/pull/245#issuecomment-1973797657) for more details (open evidence bank, etc.)

## 2024-05-13

### Who is here
Florian Goth, Gerasimos Chourdakis, Jan-Philipp Thiele, Jean-Noël Grad, Jeremy Cohen, Magnus Hagdorn, Michele Martone

### Agenda
* ISC 2024: [Developing a Sustainable Future for HPC and RSE Skills: Training Pathways and Structures](https://app.swapcard.com/widget/event/isc-high-performance-2024/planning/UGxhbm5pbmdfMTgyNjc4OA==) from [RSEHPC@ISC24](http://www.rse-hpc.org/)
* citation file format: seems redundant with the [contributors.yml](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/blob/main/contributors.yml) file

## 2024-05-06

### Who is here
Florian Goth, Jan-Philipp Thiele, Magnus Hagdorn, Michele, (later: Gerasimos Chourdakis)

Not available: Jean-Noël Grad, Jan Linxweiler

### Agenda
https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/279  this tries to sort out a discussion from last week
https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/277
https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/276 -> merge
https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/273 -> add ref. vi-hps
https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/272 -> merge
https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/267 

and maybe a great idea for this:
https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/235

Notes:
- read the paper entirely:
- items to think about in the grand scheme of the entire paper: dependency, ethics for teaching
- think about the notion of "identitätsstiftend in the intro"

hand in uk-rse:
https://codimd.carpentries.org/0yKcFROrRP6hCjovs-CleA?edit
until 07.05

## 2024-04-29

### Who is here
Florian Goth, Jeremy Cohen, Gerasimos Chourdakis, Michele Martone, Moritz Schwarzmeier, Jean-Noël Grad, Magnus Hagdorn, Philipp Thiele

Not available: Harald von Waldow

### Agenda (add points before the meeting)
- 275 : Flo will create a new state and get agreement from Michele and Magnus and Philipp
- Merge 271 -> MERGED

## 2024-04-26

### Who is here
Florian Goth, Jan Philipp Thiele, Harald von Waldow, Magnus Hagedorn, Simon Christ, Gerasimos Chourdakis (came later)


Not available: Jeremy Cohen, Jean-Noël Grad

### Agenda (add points before the meeting)
- The plan forward (subgroups for new and old paper)
- The renaming/reframing issue
- new subroup for masters programm in teachingRSE namespace https://github.com/the-teachingRSE-project
- Further issues & PR of competencies paper

## 2024-04-19

### Who is here
Florian Goth, Jean-Noël Grad, Harald von Waldow, Magnus Hagdorn, Michele Martone, Toby Hodges


Not available: Gerasimos Chourdakis

### Agenda (add points before the meeting)

- General overview of the repository: [pulse](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pulse)
- [Open pull requests](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pulls), in particular (tag people needed):
  - https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/264
- [Open issues to decide upon](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues), in particular:
    Discussion:
    - https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/263
    - https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/261
    - https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/260
    - https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/259
- Additional topics:
- New version: https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11457
- https://events.hifis.net/event/994/page/341-conference-proceedings
- https://terminplaner6.dfn.de/p/e9140aea2ae297f43b7429bf75bb1276-681723 -> only 3 more days!
- new issue for discussion: https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/266


## 2024-04-12

### Who is here
Florian Goth, Gerasimos Chourdakis, 

### Who's missing
Jan-Philipp Thiele

### Agenda (add points before the meeting)

- General overview of the repository: [pulse](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pulse)
- [Open pull requests](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pulls), in particular (tag people needed):
    In order to prepare an arxiv releases for our Dagstuhl participants, htere are a couple of MRs that we need to address:
    
    - https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/254
    - https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/257
    - https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/255
    - https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/252
- [Open issues to decide upon](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues), in particular:
    - ...
- Additional topics:
    - Dagstuhl seminar starting at 14.04

## 2024-04-05

### Who is here

* Florian Goth, Gerasimos Chourdakis, Harald von Waldow, Jean-Noël Grad, Jeremy Cohen, Magnus Hagdorn, Nicholas del Grosso, Philipp Thiele, Simon Christ, Toby Hodges

### Agenda

- Meeting date until 26.04: Friday 10-11
- Do another round of poll with more time slot options on monday to friday
- Note to Flo: extend zoom invite -> DONE.
- Another Note to Flo: Do another arxiv release for the people at Dagstuhl.
- PRs and issues to be discussed:
    - PR: [Suggest changes to SE skills section](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/231)
        - Conclusion: ready, long discussed already, merged during the meeting
    - Issue: [Think about SRU](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/249)
        - Long discussion, commented in the issue.
    - Issue: [RSE tasks and responsiblities section](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/241)
    - Issue: [sharpen/elaborate the different notions of repos](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/250)
    - PR: [241 rse tasks and responsiblities section](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/251)
        - Feedback from Anna-Lena before the Dagsthul seminar?
    - PR: [CC-BY licensing of this repo](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/239)
        - CC-BY this afternoon. -> merged
        - Work on CFF in a separate PR. -> issue 253
- [RSECon UK 2024](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/248)
    - Some people can/will join (add names)
    - Separate contribution or satellite event?
    - Goal: Keep it under the community umbrella, instead of doing something independent. Try to stick to the main conference.

## 2024-03-22

### Who is here

* Florian Goth, Philipp Thiele, Magnus Hagdorn, Jan Linxweiler, Jean-Noël Grad, Maria Guadalupe Barrios Sazo, Michele Martone, Anna-Lena Lamprecht, Toby Hodges

Not available: Gerasimos Chourdakis (I will summarize the discussion from my group next week), Jeremy Cohen, Matthias Braun

### Agenda

- [Rewordings PR](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/244/)
- [Changes to SE section PR](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/231)
-  And what about [Issue 242](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/242)?
- What a beginning RSE should learn at the start of their career
   - [summary](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/229#issuecomment-2009883293)
   - raw data in the [pad](https://pad.gwdg.de/s/QVjbcfEiB#)
- flipped classrom / non-linear course:
   - blog post (see [last figure](https://compeau.cbd.cmu.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/07/adaptive_paths-1024x632.jpg) in particular): https://compeau.cbd.cmu.edu/establishing_a_computational_biology_flipped_classroom/
   - paper: https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1006764
- Do projects! (related keyword: problem-based learning)

### Conclusions / next steps
- merge Michele's MR
- merge Frank's MR
- create a version of Anna-Lena's MR with all comments taken into account
- close Anna-Lenna's issue and create new sub-issues.
- Do a poll for the new date in the semester.

NOTIFICATION: No meeting on 29.03



## 2024-03-15

### Who is here

* Florian Goth, Philipp Thiele, Magnus Hagdorn, Matthias Braun, Jean-Noël Grad, Maria Guadalupe Barrios Sazo, Jan Linxweiler, Jeremy Cohen, Nicholas Del Grosso, Leyla Jael Castro (late), Toby Hodges

Not available: Gerasimos Chourdakis

### Agenda

 - Discussion about interaction with SE community 
   - How do roles held by members of the academic SE community and the RSE community differ - what are the similarities and how can we effectively engage with the SE community? (Ref: [Upcoming Dagstuhl seminar](https://www.dagstuhl.de/en/seminars/seminar-calendar/seminar-details/24161))
 - onboarding Nick
 - Review of notes from the discussion sessions.
  - The main pad from the session is [here](https://pad.gwdg.de/dHm6gU4HRu6zg7E57zY9SQ#)
  - Let's design detailed master programs!
  - Links share on the chat
    - https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.11457
    - https://iacs.stonybrook.edu/opportunities/certificates/cdcs
    - https://train.oxrse.uk/material
    - https://www.hpc-certification.org/
    - https://github.com/OxfordRSE/gutenberg
    - https://www.wissenschaftsrat.de/download/2023/1580-23.pdf?__blob=publicationFile&v=11

##### Promoting an RSE Masters

 - Really useful discussions - many of the people in the discussion groups seemed to come to the discussion convinced that RSE Masters courses would be useful.
 - However, the discussions were mostly around challenges to making this happen and work effectively.

Some general discussion in the meeting about where research comes into an RSE Masters - how much of the programme is science training and how much is RSE training - e.g. are participants also going to study topics in their "home" domain as well as learning RSE skills?
- w.r.t. the hiring process, is a culture change needed? RSEs are good at abstracting away domain-specific problems into more general problems for which algorithms are readily available. Yet academic institutions prefer to hire RSEs who already have experience in their domain-specific field, compared to generalist RSEs / computer scientists / RSEs trained in other domains. One reason is a concern about how effectively the RSE can communicate with domain scientists, when the RSE doesn't have a minimal background in that domain. This may not be specific to RSE, and more be a result of the growing interdisciplinary nature of research, where domain-scientists are expected to be well-versed into other domains so they can effectively communicate with other research groups when working on a multidisciplinary research project? e.g. German CRC and SFB, European multidisciplinary projects, etc.



## 2024-02-23

### Who is here:

* Florian Goth, Philipp Thiele, Harald von Waldow, Magnus Hagdorn, Gerasimos Chourdakis, Moritz Schwarzmeier, Michele Martone, Matthias Braun, Jean-Noël Grad, Jael Castro

### Agenda
- W00T: https://de-rse.org/learn-and-teach/
- renamed survey project: https://github.com/DE-RSE/learn-and-teach
- PR from adding a link from the de-RSE website: https://github.com/DE-RSE/de-rse.github.io/pull/265
- workshop organization
- license: Add a short header

- create a github organisation
- feedback from morning: SE/RE found out that RSE is different
- Dagstuhl update: maybe another slot available.
- We conveyed our fear of splitting the community to Stefan

## 2024-02-16

### Who is here:
* Florian Goth, Philipp Thiele, Gerasimos Chourdakis, Simon Christ, Harald von Waldow, Moritz Schwarzmeier, Jan Linxweiler, Jeremy Cohen, Michele Martone, Jean-Noël Grad

### Agenda
- Status Dagstuhl?
   - https://www.dagstuhl.de/en/seminars/seminar-calendar/seminar-details/24161
- Status Website? (see [pull request](https://github.com/DE-RSE/survey_rse_training/pull/6))
   - contributions take the form of Markdown files in [collections/_resources](https://github.com/DE-RSE/survey_rse_training/tree/main/collections/_resources) (see [contributing.md](https://github.com/DE-RSE/survey_rse_training/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md))
   - dynamic parts of the HTML files are designed with [Liquid](https://shopify.github.io/liquid/basics/introduction/)
   - the website is built with Jekyll ([GitHub Actions](https://github.com/DE-RSE/survey_rse_training/blob/main/.github/workflows/build.yml))
   - CC-BY license with de-RSE for survey-RSE
- Status Logo + name
   - https://github.com/DE-RSE/survey_rse_training/issues/8
- Status deRSE24 workshop
- status PRs by ALL?
- https://github.com/DE-RSE/survey_rse_training/issues/9

## 2024-02-09

### Who is here:
- Florian Goth, Philipp Thiele, Harald von Waldow, Magnus Hagdorn, Jeremy Cohen, Simon Christ, Maria Guadalupe Barrios Sazo, Moritz Schwarzmeier 
- Not available: Gerasimos Chourdakis


### Agenda
1. License text group name
    - Teaching RSE workgroup of the de-RSE e.V.
    - F. Goth and deRSE23 community contributors
    - ???
2. Two license PRs! 
    - The first has approval by almost everyone now, important for Copyright changes
    - The second adds some good additional files
3. Final discussion: [definition for Researchers](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/237/files)
4. Discussion of World-Cafe
    - Any news?
    - Any questions?
    - Any suggestions?
5. ???

### Next steps
- @everyone:
    - add ressources to [material issue](https://github.com/DE-RSE/survey_rse_training/issues/2) and/or relate your ressources to the skills
    - Protest on the [website boilerplate PR](https://github.com/DE-RSE/survey_rse_training/pull/6)
    - keep on ideating on the workshop issues
- FG:
    - Figure out how we are called and change Readme.md accordingly
- HvW: 
    - Figure out a CFF file [example](https://github.com/dealii/dealii)
    - update PR
- JPT:
    - Contact missing approvals for License file PR
    - Merge definition for Researchers PR
## 2024-02-02

### Who is here:
- Florian Goth, Magnus Hagdorn, Philipp Thiele, Gerasimos Chourdakis, Jeremy Cohen, Harald von Waldow, Jael Castro, Jean-Noël Grad, Maria Guadalupe Barrios Sazo, Matthias Braun, Simon Christ, Stephan Druskat, Guido Juckeland

### Agenda
1. Recap of next steps from 2024-01-26
   * https://github.com/DE-RSE/2023_paper-RSE-groups
   * IEEE German Education Conference: https://gecon2024.org/ 
3. JPT: Sprecherrat of de-RSE e.V.
As an 'Arbeitskreis' of the association we have to vote for or appoint a speaker to participate in the speakers council (Sprecherrat) that is supposed to happen at some point. The suggestion is also to appoint a vice speaker to go to the Sprecherrat if the speaker can't make it for some reason. I (JPT) would be willing to be vice speaker.
-> Result: Speaker Florian and vice speaker Philipp
3. World-Cafe feedback round (more in depth)
   * What are our teachers made of, and how can we find them: https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/230
   * Ask people of their opinion, what a beginning RSE should learn at the start of their career: https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/229
   * Benefits of having dedicated RSE masters: Intention: convince others: https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/228
   * Collect strategies of getting RSE topics into official university structures: https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/227
   * Challenges/Lessons learned of Teachers currently teaching RSE things: https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/226
5. Technical things about the license 
    * Do we need some comment block at the beginning of each file?! -> No
    * How do we call our 'collective' so other people can properly adhere to the -by part? -> everyone think about a name and content of a CFF file
    * Harald volunteers to provide a first shot at the formal CC-BY licensing thing of the repo.
    
### Next steps
- @everyone:
    - Think of a name for our group concerning the license text, i.e. who should people attribute derivatives to? Ideas:
        - Teaching RSE workgroup of the de-RSE e.V.
        - F. Goth and deRSE23 community contributors
        - ???
    - If you attend deRSE24 in Würzburg and have no conflicting event to our workshop choose a breakout group to co-moderate (at least 2 for each would be perfect)
    - add ressources to [material issue](https://github.com/DE-RSE/survey_rse_training/issues/2) and/or relate your ressources to the skills
    - Protest on the [website boilerplate PR](https://github.com/DE-RSE/survey_rse_training/pull/6)

## 2024-01-26

### Who is here:
- Philipp Thiele, Jean-Noël Grad, Anna-Lena Lamprecht, Stephan Druskat, Matthias Braun, Jael Castro, Gerasimos Chourdakis, Harald Waldow, Guido Juckeland, M. Guadalupe (Lupe) Barrios S., Simon Christ, Florian Goth (briefly), Moritz Schwarzmeier

### Agenda
1. Short recap and reminder on survey material: https://github.com/DE-RSE/survey_rse_training
2. License!! Let's place everything under CC-BY V4
3. discussion round [PR for reworking SE](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/231)
    - PT: I am missing the term "software" somewhere
    - ALL: from preprint some SE professors immediately wanted to write a "counterpaper", 
4. PR on the "legacy RSE": https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/222
    - SE term re-engineering also fits.
5. Flo: decide whether we send out a reminder for contributions to de-RSE ML. It would be time to move into the next stage of the position paper process: review phase
    - let's not make it as complicated as the last position paper
6. Venue for paper publication: Edited volume as outcome of [Dagstuhl Seminar 24161](https://www.dagstuhl.de/24161)
    - SD: talking to MIT press as OA
    - HW: What is the benefit of this venue?
        - PT: participation of UK-RSE and US-RSE
        - ALL: maybe needs to have a condensed version for the volume and an extended version on arXiv etc.
    - it would be great to have this out before Würzburg or the Dagstuhl seminar to provide a discussion start
    - updates are possible to show the progress of the paper
    - timeline needs the board meeting dates (and enough time to read it first)
7. Icons? (https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/203)
    - curiosity is currently both skill and value (we need to split that up somehow) [see](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues/235)
    - Icons in principle are good. Three cyclic things are hard to parse
    - Maybe different icon for curiosity but that depends on above issue and can also be done seperately
    - Simon will rework PR to have it up-to date and then it can be merged for now
8. Mailing List! : https://lists.uni-wuerzburg.de/mailman/listinfo/teachingrse  I have added all of you, please figure out/feedback if sending worked for you.
    - Everyone received the automated 'you are on the list mail' but no-one got the mail from 25.01. twice. (was it the same mail? then the list might have filtered)
9. World-Cafe feedback round
 
### Next steps
- @everyone:
    - add ressources to [material issue](https://github.com/DE-RSE/survey_rse_training/issues/2) and/or relate your ressources to the skills
    - Protest on the [website boilerplate PR](https://github.com/DE-RSE/survey_rse_training/pull/6) 
    - all paper authors should approve the [license PR](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/pull/231) 
      if you disapprove tell us!
    - Add your thoughts and ideas to [issues marked as deRSE24](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AdeRSE24) 
      and if you want to co-organize a topic during the workshop add a comment
- @SD Keeps on updating and working on the "Legacy RSE" PR
- @ALL Keeps on updating the RSE <-> SE bijective mapping rework
- @SC will update the icons PR so it works technically and has no conflict -> Then it will be merged
- @FG 
    - Did you send a single email to all + Mailing List? If yes than the list might have filtered duplicates, try sending the email twice maybe?
    - Write a reminder email to the RSE Mailing List about providing feedback and set a specific date for PRs (sometime mid February) so:
        a) People have time to read the paper and formulate a PR with a deadline in mind
        b) we still have time to review and publish v2 on arXiv ideally before Würzburg but certainly  before Dagstuhl. Ideal case: Approval by de-RSE e.V. board before Dagstuhl 

## 2024-01-19

### Next steps

- Collect three resources for each of the pillars in the [survey: material issue](https://github.com/DE-RSE/survey_rse_training/issues/2)
- Prepare world-café discussions in one of the deRSE24 [issues](https://github.com/CaptainSifff/paper_teaching-learning-RSE/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AdeRSE24)
